# 287. Find the Duplicate Number \(medium\)

## Question:

Given an array nums containing n + 1 integers where each integer is between 1 and n \(inclusive\), prove that at least one duplicate number must exist. Assume that there is only one duplicate number, find the duplicate one.

**Note:**

1. You **must not** modify the array \(assume the array is read only\).
2. You must use only constant, O\(1\) extra space.
3. Your runtime complexity should be less than _O_\(_n_2\).
4. There is only one duplicate number in the array, but it could be repeated more than once.

## Thought:

* sort and hashtable cannot be used
* **Approach \#3 Floyd's Tortoise and Hare \(Cycle Detection\) \[Accepted\]**

  **Intuition**

  If we interpret `nums` such that for each pair of index ii and value vivi​, the "next" value vjvj​ is at index vivi​, we can reduce this problem to cycle detection. See the solution to [Linked List Cycle II](https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-cycle-ii/solution/) for more details.

  **Algorithm**

  First off, we can easily show that the constraints of the problem imply that a cycle _must_ exist. Because each number in `nums` is between 11and nn, it will necessarily point to an index that exists. Therefore, the list can be traversed infinitely, which implies that there is a cycle. Additionally, because 00 cannot appear as a value in `nums`, `nums[0]`cannot be part of the cycle. Therefore, traversing the array in this manner from `nums[0]` is equivalent to traversing a cyclic linked list. Given this, the problem can be solved just like [Linked List Cycle II](https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-cycle-ii/).

## Solution:

```text
class Solution:
    def findDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        if not nums:
            return -1
        slow = nums[0]
        fast = nums[0]
        head = nums[0]
        while True:
            slow = nums[slow]
            fast = nums[nums[fast]]
            if slow == fast:
                break
        while head != slow:
            head = nums[head]
            slow = nums[slow]
        return head
```

